Overview
==================

Developer documentation is designed to provide developers with
guidelines, documents, and API references. It is helpful for developers
who want to build DApps on aelf and develop contracts. New users can
also get to know things like how nodes run from this documentation.

This documentation is still updated, so you are encouraged to frequently
visit this site to check the new content.

**What is aelf**

aelf is an excellent one-stop solution for Web3 DApps, built upon a
cloud-native, high-performance, next-gen blockchain system. With its
various infrastructures and developer tools that underpin Web3,
applications in aelf ecosystem can run in a secure, fast, smooth, and
cost-efficient manner.

With its well-developed infrastructures for Web3 applications like DeFi
and Metaverse, aelf provides Web3 users and developers with a fast,
smooth, and low-cost experience, further lowering the bar. aelf will be
an integral part of the metaverse and the convenient entrance to that
world for everyone.

To learn more about aelf infrastructure, please refer to `aelf
Whitepaper <https://aelf.com/gridcn/aelf_whitepaper_v1.7_en.pdf>`__.

To learn more about aelf governance, please refer to `aelf Economic and
Governance
Whitepaper <https://aelf.com/gridcn/aelf_Economic_and_Governance_Whitepaper_v1.2_en.pdf>`__.

**Why aelf?**

aelf is a high-performance, cloud-native, layer-1 blockchain network
with its Mainnet nodes running on different cloud-computing data
centers. It provides a high-speed running environment for smart
contracts and enables the execution of contracts in parallel and smart
contract microservitization running on server clusters. Its MainChain
and multi-SideChains architecture supports efficient indexing within the
network and guarantees almost unlimited scalability. The built-in
cross-chain design facilitates ultra-fast interaction of data. The
innovative hybrid of shared SideChain and exclusive SideChain greatly
lowers the cost for developers and users and further enhances the
overall network performance.


