# Address

## Overview

The changes of the state of an AElf blockchain are driven by the execution of transactions. An Address can identify one of the participants of a transaction, that is, either transaction sender or destination. The sender is marked as From in a transaction, and the destination is marked as To.

Actually, From can be a User Address, a Contract Address, or a Virtual Address, but To can only be a Contract Address, which means the transaction sender wants to construct a transaction to execute a certain method in that Smart Contract.

Here are some further explanations of all kinds of Address in an AElf blockchain.

## User Address

A User Address is generated by an instance of a implementation of interface *IAElfAsymmetricCipherKeyPair*. We call this instance as a key pair. One key pair is possessed by a real user of this AElf blockchain.

This is the defination of interface *IAElfAsymmetricCipherKeyPair*.

```c#
public interface IAElfAsymmetricCipherKeyPair
{
    byte[] PrivateKey { get; }
    byte[] PublicKey { get; }
}
```
Currently, in AElf blockchain, we use ECKeyPair to implement this interface, just like most of other blockchain systems. Users can use aelf-command tool to generate themselves a valid ECKeyPair, thus generate a unique User Address.

User can easily create a key pair with **command line tool** with the **create** command.

```shell
aelf-command create
```

Creation will be successful after you provide a valid passwrod. When creating the key-pair (that we sometimes refer to as the "account") it will generate a file with the ".json" extension. This file will contain the public and private key and will be encrypted with the password you provided before.

If you are writing a dApp you can also use the following method in the js-sdk, it is based on bip39 for generating a deterministic key pair with a "mnemonic sentence" ([here for more on this](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0039.mediawiki)):

```javascript
import Aelf from 'aelf-sdk';
Aelf.wallet.createNewWallet();
```

This will return an object containing the mnemonic used, the key-pair and the address. In AElf we usually encode the address in base58. This address is derived from the public, we calculate it as the first 30 bytes of the double sha256 hash. The AElf js-sdk provides the following, that returns the address:

```javascript
import Aelf from 'aelf-sdk';
const address = aelf.wallet.getAddressFromPubKey(pubKey);
```

Finally here is the Protobuf message we use for representing an address, it is often used by other types to represent addresses:

```protobuf
option csharp_namespace = "AElf.Types";
message Address
{
  bytes value = 1;
}
```

Also, the structure of Hash is very similar to Address.

## Contract Address

Contract Address can identify a Smart Contract in an AElf blockchain. The Contract Address is calculated with chain id and a serial number during the deployment of related Smart Contract.

```c#
private static Address BuildContractAddress(Hash chainId, long serialNumber)
{
    var hash = HashHelper.ConcatAndCompute(chainId, HashHelper.ComputeFrom(serialNumber));
    return Address.FromBytes(hash.ToByteArray());
}
public static Address BuildContractAddress(int chainId, long serialNumber)
{
    return BuildContractAddress(HashHelper.ComputeFrom(chainId), serialNumber);
}
```
## Contract Virtual Address

As an extended function, every contract can be added with a Hash value based on its Address, then it can obtain unlimited virtual Addresses, this newly created address is called **Virtual Address**.

For example, the account transfer in AEif blockchain is to send the Transfer transaction to the MultiToken contract along with the parameters of the recipient, transfer currency and amount, etc. One account transfer involves the sender and recipient, and both parties are identified by the Address. In this situation, the Virtual Address, which is created by Address and Hash algorithm, can be either party of the account transfer like the normal Address for the user or contract. What’s more, Virtual Address can only be controlled by the primary contract, this enables the contract to custody transactions or fundings independently for every user.

In essence, the characteristic of Virtual Address is a unique identification. As a result, the Virtual Address, which is generated by a business action on this contract, is reliable to be used for token transferring. 

